                       Language is never, ever, ever, random

                                                               ADAM KILGARRIFF




Abstract
Language users never choose words randomly, and language is essentially
non-random. Statistical hypothesis testing uses a null hypothesis, which
posits randomness. Hence, when we look at linguistic phenomena in cor-
pora, the null hypothesis will never be true. Moreover, where there is enough
data, we shall (almost) always be able to establish that it is not true. In
corpus studies, we frequently do have enough data, so the fact that a rela-
tion between two phenomena is demonstrably non-random, does not sup-
port the inference that it is not arbitrary. We present experimental evidence
of how arbitrary associations between word frequencies and corpora are
systematically non-random. We review literature in which hypothesis test-
ing has been used, and show how it has often led to unhelpful or mislead-
ing results.
Keywords: 쎲쎲쎲

1. Introduction
Any two phenomena might or might not be related. The range of pos-
sibilities is that the association is Random, Arbitrary, Motivated or Pre-
dictable (R, A, M, P). The bulk of linguistic questions concern the dis-
tinction between A and M. A linguistic account of a phenomenon gen-
erally gives us reason to view the relation between, for example, a verb’s
syntax and its semantics, as motivated rather than arbitrary. However,
it is not in general possible to model the A-M distinction mathematically.
The distinction that can be modeled mathematically is between R and
not-R, that is, between random, or uncorrelated, pairs and pairs where
there is some correlation, be it arbitrary, motivated or predictable.1 The
mechanism here is hypothesis-testing. A null hypothesis, H0 is con-
structed to model the situation in which there is no correlation between

Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic Theory 1⫺2 (2005), 263⫺275     1613-7027/05/0001⫺0263
                                                                     쑕 Walter de Gruyter
264    A. Kilgarriff

the two phenomena. As the mathematics of the random is well under-
stood, we can compute the likelihood of the null hypothesis given the
data. If the likelihood is low, we reject H0.
   The problem for empirical linguistics is that language is not random,
so the null hypothesis is never true. Language is not random because we
speak or write with purposes. We do not, indeed, without computational
help are not capable of, producing words or sounds or sentences or
documents randomly. We do not always have enough data to reject the
null hypothesis, but that is a distinct issue: wherever there is enough
data, it is rejected. Using language corpora, we are frequently in the
fortunate position of having very large quantities of data at our disposal.
Then, even where pairs of corpora are set up to be linguistically identical,
the null hypothesis is resoundingly defeated. In section 4, we present an
experiment demonstrating this counterintuitive effect.
   There are a number of papers in the empirical linguistics literature
where researchers seemed to be testing whether an association was lin-
guistically salient, or used the confidence with which H0 could be re-
jected as a measure of salience, whereas in fact they were merely testing
whether they had enough data to reject H0 with confidence. Some such
cases are reviewed in section 5. Hypothesis testing has been widely used
in the acquisition of subcategorization frames from corpora and this
literature is considered in some detail. Alternatives to inappropriate hy-
pothesis-testing are presented.
   Before proceeding, may I clarify that this paper is in no way critical
of using probability models, all of which are based on assumptions of
randomness, in empirical linguistics in general. Probability models have
been responsible for a large share of progress in the field in the last
decade and a half. The randomness assumptions are always untrue, but
that does not preclude them from frequently being useful. Making false
assumptions is often an ingenious way to proceed; the problem arises
where the literal falsity of the assumption is overlooked, and inappropri-
ate inferences are drawn.

2. The arbitrary and the random
In common parlance, random and arbitrary are synonyms, with diction-
aries giving near-identical definitions: LDOCE (1995) defines random as
  happening or chosen without any definite plan, or pattern
and arbitrary as
  1 decided or arranged without any reason or plan, often unfairly … 2
  happening or decided by chance rather than a plan
                              Language is never, ever, ever, random     265

   Superficially, randomness, as defined here, is what the technical sense
of random captures and makes explicit. The technical sense is defined in
terms of statistical independence. First, we formalize the framework:

  For a population of events, the first phenomenon holds where x is
  true of the event, the second holds where y is true of the event.

   Now, the relation between the phenomena is random iff the prob-
ability of x, for that subset of events where y does hold, is identical to
its probability for the subset where y does not hold, that is

  P (x|y) ⫽ P (x|ÿ y)

   The relation is symmetric: P (x|y) ⫽ P (x|ÿ y) entails P (y|x) ⫽
P (y|ÿ x). Hereafter I use ‘random’ for the technical meaning and ‘arbi-
trary’ for the non-technical one.
   Arbitrary events are very rarely random, and random events are very
rarely arbitrary. It takes considerable ingenuity and sophisticated mathe-
matics to produce a pseudo-random sequence algorithmically, and true
randomness is not possible at all. Events happening “without any defi-
nite plan, aim or pattern” are, by definition, arbitrary, but are vanish-
ingly unlikely to be random. Outside the sub-atomic realm, natural
events are very rarely random.
   Consider, for example, cat food purchases and shoe-polish purchases
within the space of all UK supermarket-shopping events: does the fact
that cat food was bought predict (positively or negatively) whether shoe
polish was bought in the same shopping trip? There is no obvious reason
why it should, and we can happily declare the relation arbitrary. But
perhaps either cat food or shoe-polish are more (or less) often bought in
hot (or cold) weather, or on Saturday nights, or Sunday mornings, or
Monday lunchtimes, or by richer (or poorer) people, or by men (or
women), or by people in (or out of) towns… There is an unlimited
number of hypotheses connecting the two (positively or negatively); if
just one of these has any validity, however weak, then the null hypothesis
is false.
   At this point, you may question why the null hypothesis is ever a
useful construct.
   For a wide range of tasks, although H0 is false, there is only enough
evidence to establish the fact if there is a strong relation between the two
phenomena. Thus, given evidence from 1,000 shopping trips, it is un-
likely we shall be able to reject H0 concerning cat food and shoe-polish,
whereas we shall be able to reject it concerning strawberry-buying and
cream-buying. Given further evidence, perhaps from 1,000,000 shopping
266    A. Kilgarriff

trips, we shall also be able to reject the null hypothesis regarding nappy2-
buying and beer-sixpack-buying. (The correlation, the most newsworthy
product of large-scale data mining by supermarkets, was widely reported
in the British media.) But still not for catf ood and shoe-polish. But,
given 1,000,000,000 events, we shall in all likelihood also be able to reject
it for cat food and shoe-polish.
   Whether or not we can reject the null hypothesis (with eg. 95 % confi-
dence) is a function of sample size and level of correlation. Where sample
size is held constant (and is not enormous), whether or not we can reject
H0 can be seen as a way of providing statistical support for distinguish-
ing the arbitrary and the motivated. This is a role that hypothesis testing
plays across the social sciences. However where the sample size varies
by an order of magnitude, or where it is enormous, it is wrong to identify
the accept-H0/reject-H0 distinction with the arbitrary/motivated one.
   The uneasy relationship between hypothesis-testing, and quantity of
data, is familiar to statisticians though frequently overlooked or mis-
understood by users of statistics (Carver 1993, Stubbs 1995, Brandstätter
1999). One statistics textbook warns thus:
  None of the null hypotheses we have considered with respect to good-
  ness of fit can be exactly true, so if we increase the sample size (and
  hence the value of χ2) we would ultimately reach the point when all
  null hypotheses would be rejected. All that the χ2 test can tell us, then,
  is that the sample size is too small to reject the null hypothesis! (Owen
  and Jones, 1977, p 359).
The issue is particularly salient for empirical linguistics because, firstly,
we have access to extremely large sample sizes, and secondly, the distri-
bution of many language phenomena is Zipfian. The has 6,000,000 oc-
currences in the BNC whereas cat food (spelled as one word or two) has
66. For a vast number of third phenomena X, the null hypothesis that
the and X are uncorrelated will be rejected, whereas the null hypothesis
that cat food and X are uncorrelated will not. It would be wrong to draw
inferences about what was arbitrary, what motivated.

3. Objections to Maximum Likelihood Estimates (MLEs)
Church and Hanks (1990) inaugurated the research area of lexical statis-
tics with their presentation of Mutual Information (I), a measure of how
closely associated two phenomena are. It can be applied to finding words
which occur together to a noteworthy degree, or to finding words which
are particularly associated with one corpus as against another, or for
various other purposes.3 They define the mutual information between
two words x and y as
                                  Language is never, ever, ever, random   267

  I (x; y) ⫽ log 2   冉    p (xandy)
                         p (x) · p(y)
                                        冊
and then estimate probabilities directly from frequencies, that is using
the ‘Maximum Likelihood Estimate’ (MLE) of f (x)/N for p (x), f (y)/N
for p (y), f (x-and-y)/N for p (x-and-y), thereby giving


  I (x; y) ⫽ log 2   冉   N · f (x ⫺ and ⫺ y)
                              f (x) · f (y)
                                               冊
   Dunning (1993) presents a critique of the use of Mutual Information
in empirical linguistics. His objection has been confused with the critique
of hypothesis-testing I make here so I mention his work in order to
clarify that the two objections, while both valid, are different in nature
and independent.
   Dunning demonstrates how MLEs fare poorly when estimating the
probabilities of rare events. The problem is essentially this: if a word (or
bigram, or trigram, or character-sequence etc.) occurs just once or twice
in a corpus of N words (bigrams, etc.), then the simplest way to estimate
the probability is the NILE, which gives 1/N or 2/N. However this does
not factor in the arbitrariness of the word occurring at all in the corpus:
in a corpus ten times the size, there would be roughly ten times the
number of singletons and doubletons in the corpus, most of which would
not have occurred at all in the original corpus. Thus some of the prob-
ability mass contributing to the 1/N or 2/N MLEs should have been put
aside for the words (bigrams etc.) which did not occur at all in this
particular corpus. Viewed another way, the 1/N and 2/N should be dis-
counted to allow for the fact that one or two occurrences are very low
bases of evidence on which to assert probabilities.
   There are various ways in which the discounting can be done, for
example the Good-Turing method (Good 1953), usefully applied to em-
pirical linguistics in Gale and Sampson (1995), Bod (1995). Dunning
presents and advocates the use of the log-likelihood statistic, which, like
the χ2 statistic, is χ2-distributed,4 but more accurately estimates probabil-
ities where counts are low. The log-likelihood statistic still only estimates
probabilities: since Dunning’s work, Pedersen (1996) has shown how
Fisher’s Exact Method can be applied to the problem, to identify the
exact probability of a word (bigram etc.) rather than estimating it at all.
   Thus Dunning’s objection to Mutual Information is that it fails to
accurately represent probabilities when counts are low (where ‘low’ is
generally taken as less than five). If the probabilities can be accurately
represented, Dunning’s anxieties will be set at ease.
268    A. Kilgarriff

   The critique in this paper does not concern whether probabilities are
accurately calculated. Rather, the objection is that the probability model,
with its assumptions of randomness, is inappropriate, particularly where
counts are high (eg, thousands or more).
   Where the task is to determine whether there is an interesting associa-
tion between two rare events, Dunning’s concern must be heeded. Where
it is to determine whether there is an interesting association between
high-frequency events, the concerns of this paper must be.


4. Experiment
Given enough data, H0 is almost always rejected however arbitrary the
data, as the author discovered when grappling with the following data.
   Two corpora were set up to be indisputably of the same language type,
with only arbitrary differences between them: each was a random subset
of the written part of the British National Corpus (BNC). The sampling
was as follows: all texts shorter than 20,000 words were excluded. This
left 820 texts. Half the texts were then randomly assigned to each of
two corpora.
   The null hypotheses were (1) that the two subcorpora, viewed as col-
lections of words rather than documents, were random samples drawn
from the same population; and consequently, (2) that the deviation in
frequency of occurrence for each individual word between the two sub-
corpora was explicable as random fluctuation. The HO were tested using
the χ2-test: is χ2

  Σ(|O ⫺ E | ⫺ 0.5) 2 /E

greater than the critical value? The sum is over the four cells of the
contingency table

                Corpus 1    Corpus 2

word w          a           b
not word w      c           d


  If we randomly assign words (as opposed to documents) to the one
corpus or the other, then we have a straightforward random distribution,
with the value of the χ2-statistic equal to or greater than the 99.5 %
confidence threshold of 7.88 for just 0.5 % of words. The average value
of the error term,
                                Language is never, ever, ever, random          269

  (|O ⫺ E| ⫺ 0.5) 2 /E

is then 0.5.5 The hypothesis can, therefore, be couched as: are the error
terms systematically greater than 0.5? If they are, we should be wary of
attributing high error terms to significant differences between text types,
since we also obtain many high error terms where there are no significant
differences between text types.
   Frequency lists for word-POS pairs for each subcorpus were gener-
ated. For each word occurring in either subcorpus, the error term which
would have contributed to a χ2 calculation was determined. As Table 4
shows, average values for the error term are far greater than 0.5, and
tend to increase as word frequency increases.
   As the averages indicate, the error term is very often greater than 0.5
* 7.88 ⫽ 3.94, the relevant critical value of the chi-square statistic. For
very many words, including most common words, the null hypothesis is
resoundingly defeated (as is the null hypthesis regarding the two subc-
orpora as wholes).
   There is no a priori reason to expect words to behave as if they had
been selected at random, and indeed they do not. It is in the nature of




Table 1. Comparing two same-genre corpora using χ2
Class                       First item in class                  Mean error term
(Words in freq. order)                                           for items in class
                            word                  POS

First 10 items              the                   DET            18.76
Next 10 items               for                   PRP            17.45
Next 20 items               not                   XX             14.39
Next 40 items               have                  VHB            10.71
Next 80 items               also                  AVO             7.03
Next 160 items              know                  VVI             6.40
Next 320 items              six                   CRD             5.30
Next 640 items              finally               AV0             6.71
Next 1280 items             plants                NN2             6.05
Next 2560 items             pocket                NN1             5.82
Next 5120 items             represent             VVB             4.53
Next 10240 items            peking                NP0             3.07
Next 20480 items            fondly                AV0             1.87
Next 40960 items            chandelier            NN1             1.15
Table note. Mean error term is far greater than 0.5, and increases with frequency.
POS tags are drawn from the CLAWS-5 tagset as used in the BNC (see http:/info.ox.
ac.uk/bnc)
270     A. Kilgarriff

language that any two collections of texts, covering a wide range of
registers (and comprising, say, less than a thousand samples of over a
thousand words each) will show such differences. While it might seem
plausible that oddities would in some way balance out to give a popula-
tion that was indistinguishable from one where the individual words (as
opposed to the texts) had been randomly selected, this turns out not to
be the case.
   The key word in the last paragraph is ‘indistinguishable’. In hypothesis
testing, the objective is generally to see if the population can be distin-
guished from one that has been randomly generated ⫺ or, in our case,
to see if the two populations are distinguishable from two populations
which have been randomly generated on the basis of the frequencies in
the joint corpus. Since words in a text are not random, we know that
our corpora are not randomly generated, and the hypothesis test con-
firms the fact.


5.    Re-analysis of previous work

5.1. Brown and LOB

Hofland and Johansson (1982) wanted to find words which were signifi-
cantly different in their frequencies between British and American Eng-
lish, as represented in the Brown corpus for American English and LOB
corpus for British. For each word, they tested the null hypothesis that
the difference in frequency between the two corpora could be explained
as random variation, with the samples being random samples from the
same source, and in their frequency lists, they mark words where the
null hypothesis was defeated (at a 95, 99 or 99.9 % confidence level).
Looking at these lists suggests that virtually all common words are
markedly different in their levels of use between the US and the UK:
they are all marked as such. By contrast, most of the rarer marked words
are words we know to be American or British, or to refer to items that
are more common or more salient in the US or the UK.
   As the argument of the previous section explains, most of the marked
high-frequency words are marked simply as a consequence of the essen-
tially non-random nature of language. It would not be surprising for a
high-frequency word marked as British English in these lists to be
marked as American English in a repeat of the experiment using new
data.
   Similar strategies are used by, and a similar critique is applicable to,
Leech and Fallon (1992) (again, for comparing LOB and Brown), Ray-
                              Language is never, ever, ever, random    271

son, Leech, and Hodges (1997) for comparing the conversation of dif-
ferent social groups, and Rayson and Garside (2000) for contrasting the
language of a specialist genre with ‘general language’, as represented by
the British National Corpus.


5.2 Subcategorization frame (SCF) learning
Hypothesis-testing has been used in a number of papers concerning the
automatic acquisition of subcategorization frames (SCFs) for verbs from
corpora. The problem is this. Dictionaries, even where they do present
explicit and accurate SCFs for verbs, are not complete: they do not pre-
sent all the frames for each verb. This gives rise to many parsing errors.
Researchers including Brent (1993), Briscoe and Carroll (1997) and Kor-
honen (2000) have developed methods for SCF acquisition. However,
their methods are inevitably noisy, suffering, for example, from just those
parser errors that the whole process is designed to address, and they do
not wish to accept any SCF for which there is any evidence as a true
SCF for the verb. They wish to filter out those SCFs where the evidence
is not strong enough. Brent and Briscoe and Carroll used hypothesis
testing to this end. However, problems are noted:

  Further evaluation of the results ...reveals that the filtering phase is
  the weak link in the system … The performance of the filter for classes
  with less than 10 exemplars is around chance, and a simple heuristic
  of accepting all classes with more then 10 exemplars would have pro-
  duced broadly similar results for these verbs (Briscoe and Carroll
  1997: 360⫺36).

Korhonen, Correll, and McCarthy (2000) explore the issue in detail.
Using Briscoe and Carroll’s SCF acquisition system, they explore the
impact of four different strategies for filtering out noise:

Baseline    No filter
BHT         binomial hypothesis test: reject the SCF if Ho is not defeated6
LLR         hypothesis test using log-likelihood ratio: reject the SCF if
            Ho is not defeated
MLE         threshold based on the relative frequency (which is also the
            maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) of the probability) of
            the verb occurring in the SCF given the verb, with the thresh-
            old determined empirically
272    A. Kilgarriff

  They observe

  MLE thresholding produced better results than the two statistical tests
  used. Precision improved considerably, showing that the classes occur-
  ring in the data with the highest frequency are often correct … MLE
  is not adept at finding low frequency SCFs … (Korhonen, Correll,
  and McCarthy 2000: 202)

This concurs with the theoretical argument above. Hypothesis tests are
inappropriate for the task, because the relations between verb and SCF
will never be random and the hypothesis test will merely reject the null
hypothesis wherever there is enough data, in a manner not closely corre-
lated with whether the SCF-verb link is motivated. Where there is
enough data, then the relationship between verb and SCF is easy to see
so even a simple threshold method will identify the verb’s SCFs. Where
data is very sparse, no method works well.
   Korhonen (2000) extends this line of work, exploring thresholding
methods where a more accurate estimate of the probability is obtained
by using data from semantically similar but higher frequency verbs. She
achieves modest improvements over the baseline which uses Korhonen,
Correll and McCarthy’s MLE, particularly when combining the fre-
quencies of the target verb and its semantic neighbour using a linear
method based on the quantity of evidence available for each.
   The problem is not one of distinguishing random and non-random
relationships, but of sparseness of data. Where the data is not sparse,
the difference between arbitrary and motivated connections is evident in
greatly differing relative frequencies. This makes the moral of the story
plain. Data is abundant. A modest-frequency verb like devastate occurs
(Google tells us) in well over a million web pages. With just 1 % of them,
devastate becomes one of the verbs for which we have plenty of data,
and crude thresholding methods will distinguish associated SCFs from
noise. It is possible that parsing errors are systematic and thus that the
same errors occur very often in very large corpora although our experi-
ence from looking at large corpora in the Word Sketch Engine (Kilgarriff
et al 2004) suggests not. Harvesting the web (or other huge corpora) is
the way to build an accurate SCF lexicon.7

6. Conclusion
Language is non-random and hence, when we look at linguistic phenom-
ena in corpora, the null hypothesis will never be true. Moreover, where
there is enough data, we shall (almost) always be able to establish that
it is not true. In corpus studies, we frequently do have enough data, so
                                    Language is never, ever, ever, random               273

the fact that a relation between two phenomena is demonstrably non-
random, does not support the inference that it is not arbitrary. Hypoth-
esis testing is rarely useful for distinguishing associated from non-associ-
ated pairs of phenomena in large corpora. Where used, it has often led
to unhelpful or misleading results.
   Hypothesis testing has been used to reach conclusions, where the diffi-
culty in reaching a conclusion is caused by sparsity of data. But language
data, in this age of information glut, is available in vast quantities. A
better strategy will generally be to use more data Then the difference
between the motivated and the arbitrary will be evident without the use
of compromised hypothesis testing. As Lord Rutherford put it: “If your
experiment needs statistics, you ought to have done a better experi-
ment.”
Received July 2004                                            Lexical Computing Ltd.
Revisions received May 2005
Final acceptance May 2005

Notes
  * This work was supported by the UK EPSRC, under grants GR/K18931 (SEAL)
    and GR/M54971 (WASPS).
 1. In this paper we do not consider the distinction between the predictable and the
    ‘merely’ motivated.
 2. Diapers, in American English
 3. There is some confusion over names. In information theory, Mutual Information
    is usually defined over a whole population of words, rather than being specified
    for a particular word-pair, as here, and the definition incorporates information
    from all cells of the contingency table. Church and Hanks only use a subset of that
    information. Church-and-Hanks Mutual Information has been called Pointwise
    Mutual Information. see Manning and Schütze (1999: 66 ff.) for a fuller discus-
    sion. Here we use Church and Hanks’s definition and name.
 4. This sentence will be confusing to non-mathematicians. The χ2 statistic is a statis-
    tic, that is, it can be calculated from a data sample using actual numbers. The χ2
    distribution is a theoretical construct. If a sufficiently large number of chi-square
    statistics are calculated, all from true random samples of the same population,
    then this population of χ2 statistics will, provably, fit a χ2 distribution. This is
    also true for other statistics: that is, if a sufficiently large number of log-likelihood
    statistics are calculated, all from true random samples of the same population,
    then this population of log-likelihood statistics will, provably, fit a χ2 distribution.
    Some texts call the statistic χ2 rather than χ2 to distinguish it more clearly from
    the distribution, but this practice is in the minority and is not adopted here.
 5. See appendix
 6. The model used was a sophisticated one incorporating evidence about type fre-
    quencies of verbs from the ANLT lexicon: see Briscoe and Carroll (1997) or Kor-
    honen, Correll, and McCarthy (2000) for details.
 7. See Kilgarriff and Grefenstette (2003) and papers therein. The web is a vast re-
    source for many languages. See also Banko and Brill (2001) for the benefits of
    large data over sophisticated mathematics.
274     A. Kilgarriff

Appendix
The average value of the error term is 0.5. We explain this as follows.
  If we do in fact have a random distribution, then by the definition of
the χ2 distribution, the sum of the cells in the contingency table is 1:

  a⫹b⫹c⫹d⫽1

Each of these error terms is calculated as

  (O ⫺ E ⫺ 0.5) 2/E

In our situation, there are very large datasets and the phenomenon of
interest only accounts for a very small proportion of cases. The fre-
quency of not word w is very high. Thus the expected values, E, for not
word w to be used when calculating c and d for the contingency table are
very high. As we divide by very large E, c and d are vanishingly small, so

  a⫹b⫹c⫹d⫽1

reduces to

  a⫹b⫽1

Since we have set the situation up symmetrically, a and b are the same
size, so each will be, on average, 0.5.

References
Banko, Michele and Eric Brill
  2001       Scaling to very very large corpora for natural language disambiguation.
             Proceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
             tional Linguistics and the 10th Conference of the European Chapter of the
             Association for Computational Linguistics.
Bod, Rens
  1995       Enriching linguistics with statistics: performance models of natural lan-
             guage. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Amsterdam.
Brandstätter, E.
  1999       Confidence intervals as an alternative to significance testing. Methods of
             Psychological Research Outline 4(2), 33⫺46.
Brent, Michael R.
  1993       From grammar to lexicon: unsupervised learning of lexical syntax. Com-
             putational Linguistics 19(2), 243⫺262.
Briscoe, Ted and John Carroll
  1997       Automatic extraction of subcategorization from corpora. Proceedings of
             the Fifth Conference on Applied Natural Language Processing, 356⫺363.
                                    Language is never, ever, ever, random            275
Carver, R. P.
  1993        The case against statistical significance testing, revisited. Journal of Ex-
              perimental Education 61, 287⫺292.
Church, Kenneth and Patrick Hanks
  1990        Word association norms, mutual information and lexicography. Compu-
              tational Linguistics 16(1), 22⫺29.
Dunning, Ted
  1993        Accurate methods for the statistics of surprise and coincidence. Compu-
              tational Linguistics 19(1), 61⫺74.
Gale, William and Geoffrey Sampson
  1995        Good-Turing frequency estimation without tears. Journal of Quantitative
              Linguistics 2(3),
Good, I. J.
  1953        The population frequencies of species and the estimation of population
              parameters. Biometrika 40, 237⫺264.
Grefenstette, Gregory and Julien Nioche
  2000        Estimation of English and non-English language use on the www. In
              Proceedings of RIAO (Recherche d’Informations Assiste´ e par Ordinateur),
              237⫺246.
Hofland, Knud and Stig Johanson (Eds.)
  1982        Word Frequencies in British and American English. Bergen: The Norwe-
              gian Computing Centre for the Humanities.
Korhonen, Anna
  2000        Using semantically motivated estimates to help subcategorization
              acquisition. Proceedings of the Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in
              NLP and Very Large Corpora, 216⫺223.
Korhonen, Anna, Genevieve Gorrell, and Diana McCarthy
  2000        Statistical filtering and subcategorization frame acquisition. Proceedings
              of the Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in NLP and Very Large
              Corpora, 199⫺206.
LDOCE
  1995        Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English, 3rd Edition. Ed. Della
              Summers. Harlow: Longman.
Leech, Geoffrey and Roger Fallon
  1992        Computer corpora — what do they tell us about culture? ICAME Journal
              16, 29⫺50.
Manning, Christopher and Hinrich Schütze
  1999        Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing. Cambridge, MA:
              MIT Press.
Owen, Frank and Ronald Jones
  1977        Statistics. Polytech Publishers.
Pedersen, Ted
  1996        Fishing for exactness. Proceedings of the Conference of the South-Central
              SAS Users Group, 188⫺200.
Rayson, Paul and Roger Garside
  2000        Comparing corpora using frequency profiling. Proceedings of the Work-
              shop on Comparing Corpora, 38th ACL, 1⫺6.
Rayson, Paul, Geoffrey Leech, and Mary Hodges
  1997        Social differentiation in the use of English vocabulary: some analysis of
              the conversational component of the British National Corpus. Interna-
              tional Journal of Corpus Linguistics 2(1), 133⫺152.
Stubbs, Michael
  1995        Collocations and semantic profiles: On the cause of the trouble with
              quantitative studies. Functions of Language 2(1), 23⫺55.
